Lab 1: Ethical Software Engineering

Fallbeispiel: Manipulationen
We (Florian, Sao Chi, Johanna) chose the "Fallbeispiel: Manipulation". It is about an employee of the company "CompanyRate". This company programms a rating system for banking compynies. The employee listens secretly to a phone call of one colleague. Now he suspects him to work with the company "People’s Fruit Company" because on the next day he finds some new code in thier program. This code is good for the "People’s Fruit Company". The colleague wrote a lot of other code. The employee doesn't know if the colleague is really illegally interacting with the company and wrote the new code to hide the suspicious one. Weeks ago another colleague got fired because of something strange. The employee is in a dilemma right now.

Our discussion was about the trust and the manipulation in this example. First of all the code always needs to get reviewed by colleagues....(weiß nicht, was hier noch hin soll).

Opinion Johanna:
I think that working together in a project automaticly means that all people in this project have to review the code. At least everyone has to understand why someone did something in the code. Otherwise they maybe do something twice or even against each other. The documentation of company code has to be very clear. In a company you program for the company and not for yourself. So it is not about keeping secrets or privacy. Reviewing code of colleagues is about a good workflow. The employee in our story did nothing wrong.

Next every employee had to subscribe a NDA. 

Opinion Johanna:
Of course an employee has to work for the company and subscribe that he will do nothing against the company. But in my opinion the NDA is always very difficult. Imagine there is something illegal written in the NDA. Could you do illegal stuff? Would it be ok to go against the law for your company?
Not talking about secret thing before releasing is not a hard thing, as it is very normal. Nevertheless when some does something against the law, I think it should not be covered by an NDA or the company.

Finally company

opinion Johanna:
As I said before, when I am working in a company I do the things for the company. I know when I am in a room with many people and I can akt like the company wants me to akt. Of course everyone needs privacy. But therefor you have your home or maybe a little toilet room. In a big an busy office room it is normal when other people listen to your conversations. So I think the employee in our example did nothing wrong when he listened to his colleague. If there is something that noone should hear the colleague should have gone into a room where noone can access as easy as just walking through the door.
